{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red83\green83\blue83;\red10\green82\blue135;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27640\viewh16600\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs26 \cf2 Following is extracted from Linked-In and is authored by  Neil Davidson\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt\clvertalbase \clshdrawnil \clwWidth10040\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadb160 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl260

\fs22 \cf3 see: au.linkedin.com/pub/neil-davidson/14/103/892\cf2 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\fs26 \cf2 \
\
You say: "I appreciate the suggestions for the ethical underpinnings of a discourse about such issues (sustainability as an example of issues for which common agreements or 'solutions' may or may not have to be reached). Neil's proposals overlap to some extent the points I have developed for such a system. My post 'Some considerations regarding the possibility of a moral code without religion' ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.linkedin.com/redirect?url=http%3A%2F%2Fabbeboulah%2Ewordpress%2Ecom%2F&urlhash=9l_u&_t=tracking_disc"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://abbeboulah.wordpress.com/}}; April 2013) was in response to another LI thread; the essential assumption is that I start from a planning perspective, arriving to such a set of 'principles', that apply generally to situations of differences of opinion. I would like to offer these as contributions for the discussion. Not sure that discussion can continue effectively in this scatter-sequence of posts."\
\
The Metaconstitution to which I have referred is a similar work to your recent Blog post - although it perhaps benefits from the collaborative dialogic efforts of the 20 or so people that have co-designed it over a 10-15 year period, around (architect ;-)) Richard Mochelle's PhD Thesis: "Towards a New Constitutionalism - Developing Global Civic Responsibility through Participation in World Constitutional Deliberation", 2001 RMIT University \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.linkedin.com/redirect?url=http%3A%2F%2Fresearchbank%2Ermit%2Eedu%2Eau%2Feserv%2Frmit%3A9568%2FMochelle%2Epdf&urlhash=oCtE&_t=tracking_disc"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://researchbank.rmit.edu.au/eserv/rmit:9568/Mochelle.pdf}}\
\
Much of what you have suggested in your blog (and pertinent to this stage of this discussion) is contained in Principle 2: Reasonableness\
\
Proposals and objections should be supported with valid and relevant written reasons that are grounded in commonly accessible experiences of harm.\
\
* [this is meant to be 'point 2.1, but LI won't let me write it! - Ironic, given the first title is] Written argument\
\
Proposals may be presented to an audience with passion, power, or panache, but the success of the proposal will depend finally on the reasons, as presented in writing, for subsequent revisiting, critical reflection and deliberation by all parties.\
\
cont] \uc0\u8232 \u8232 2.2 Reasons grounded in commonly recognisable experience of serious harm \u8232 Reasons for proposals must be grounded in readily communicated experience of serious harms \'96 ecological ruin, tyranny, genocide, torture, pillage, arbitrary arrest and detention, basic needs deprivation, etc. \'96 harms which most deliberants would likely declare a real interest in avoiding. \u8232 \u8232 2.3 Maintain record of shared historical harms \u8232 Because many proposals will be justified by the will to prevent recurrence of historical experiences of harm, a comprehensive record of these experiences should be maintained for access by all. Such record should be supported by substantial evidence \'96 key documents, multiple eyewitness perspectives, audio and visual recordings of events \'96 to render it as difficult as possible for future generations to deny that such experiences occurred. \u8232 \u8232 2.4 Causative reasoning \u8232 Recurring experiences of serious harm are often caused by social system attitudes and practices that actors take for granted as harmless and beyond question. Exercising reasonableness entails willingness to critically examine these underlying attitudes and practices with a view to accepting the need for their reform. \u8232 \u8232 2.5 Terrestrial reasons \u8232 The forum is for building constitutional agreement between people with agnostic, atheist and widely differing religious views. Participants cannot be expected to accept reasons that appeal to extra-terrestrial, extra-corporeal or supernatural experiences or beings, afterlife punishments or enticements, imaginary worlds, or obscure sources of authority, which cannot be readily evidenced and appreciated by most people (including children). \u8232 \u8232 2.6 Consistency of reasoning \u8232 No participant should contradict himself or herself. Reasons given by a participant for accepting or rejecting a proposal must be consistent with principles or arguments already affirmed by the participant. Where an inconsistency is revealed, the participant must address the problem and amend the former or latter position. This also applies to inconsistent use of language terms (refer principle 7) \u8232 \u8232 2.7 Relevancy maintenance \u8232 \u8232 Maintaining reasonableness requires deliberants to maintain focus on the agreed agenda issue.\u8232 \u8232 The process should be self-enforcing. Participation entails agreement to maintain relevancy and to allow other deliberants to respectfully check or contest the relevancy of one\'92s speech move, and respectfully request a return to the agreed agenda and reasoning path. \u8232 \u8232 2.8 Information Sharing \u8232 \u8232 Factual and source information referred to by deliberants in support of their propositions or arguments should be submitted to the forum, and presented by it, for consideration by all participants. \u8232 \u8232 2.9 Argument Visualisation: Public Access Reason Display \u8232 \u8232 The reasoned contributions made by forum participants should be amalgamated onto a Web-accessible, public argument tree to convey the entire developing argument with all pro and con reasoning."\
\
\pard\tx10089\pardeftab720\sl340
\cf5 \cb6 That said, there are overarching ethical principles that have arisen and in different forms over millennia. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 For example, the "Golden Rule (GR): Treat others (implicitly all others, globally), as one would prefer to be treated, and Do not treat others as one would prefer not to be treated. \u8232 The positive and negative versions are best considered together and interdependent. GR invokes exemplary behaviour, and implicitly constrains against imposition." \u8232 \u8232 Perhaps parallel(?) to Kai's model (no time to delve) is a process I think I've mentioned here - Metaconstitutional Procedures for constitutional agreement building of (i.e. not MY ethical rules, but propositions that would become OURs as we deliberated together) \u8232 \u8232 Extract: \u8232 \u8232 "Principle 3 Universality \u8232 \u8232 Proposals submitted for agreement shall be governed by the universalisability and impartiality constraints inferred by the Golden Rule, and should indicate the implications of global compliance to behaviour & system design. \u8232 \u8232 3.1 Focus on protection of Universal Interests \u8232 Deliberation should not dwell on the diverse cultural and spiritual inclinations of individuals and their changing desires and happiness pursuits. Deliberation should focus only on strategies that aim to fulfil and sustainably protect the common interests of all humanity, ie, universal interests. Acceptance of proposals will depend on demonstration of how they contribute to protecting these interests. \u8232 \u8232 3.2 Identification of Universal Interests \'96 a preliminary requirement \u8232 As a preliminary act of forum participation, participants shall engage in democratic dialogue with a view to identifying and agreeing upon a formal list of Universal Interests. \u8232 \u8232 Universal Interests shall be those that forum participants agree (1) are culturally transcendent and applicable to all people of present and future generations, (2) are threatened by global problems, including the recurrence of historical experiences, as per article 2.2, and (3) require global cooperation to assure their protection. \u8232 \u8232 3.3 Maintain an accessible, formal record of Universal Interests \u8232 The agreed, developing list of Universal Interests shall be maintained as a fully accessible record, a foundation for the forum\'92s constitution building process, and as a primary element of the developing constitution itself. \u8232 \u8232 3.4 Universal validity of argumentation \u8232 Participants must seek to assure that their arguments are supportive of and clearly linked to strategies that protect only those Universal Interests that have been agreed upon and formally listed by the forum. \u8232 \u8232 3.5 Impartiality \u8232 Constitutional proposals must not favour the welfare of certain groups or persons over others, nor current generations over future generations, nor adults over children. \u8232 \u8232 3.6 Generality \u8232 Constitutional proposals should apply generally, without exception or favour, and not be tied to prevailing role-players, authority figures, regimes, religions, nations, cultures, associations, traditions or persons. Principles should be formulated without reference to proper nouns. \u8232 Principles should be capable of serving in a charter of a well-ordered global society, in perpetuity. \u8232 This requires the deliberant not to participate \'91in role\'92 as an authority figure, but as one unaware of their future role. \u8232 \u8232 3.7 Reversibility \u8232 Advocates of proposals must be prepared to trade places with those likely to be most disadvantaged by the proposals. \u8232 \u8232 3.8 Acceptability of consequences of universal compliance \u8232 Advocates of proposals should consider \'96 what if everyone (globally) complied with proposals? \'96 and be able to justify the proposals in terms of the acceptability of the consequences. \u8232 \u8232 3.9 Acceptability of world system design implications \u8232 Deliberants should be prepared to consider and accept the implications of their proposals to world system design as well as to constitution of the organisation(s) to which they belong (as per principle 10)."\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340
\ls1\ilvl0\cf5 		\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 		\
}